Distributed builds  migration (#3540)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/book/using/distributed-builds.adoc

* Nodes may be in geographically different locations which can be the
case for multi-datacenter deployments. Jenkins can have agents in
different datacenters when inter-datacenter communication is strictly
regulated with edge firewalls. In this case, you might have a label for
the datacenter or cloudstack in which the agent resides.

=== Defining labels

Labels are defined in the settings of static agents and for agent
clouds. They must be space separated words which define that agent.
Sticking to standard ASCII characters is recommended. Here's a few label
suggestions one can use for agent agents:

* For toolchains: `jdk`, `node_js`, `ruby`, etc
* For operating systems: `linux`, `windows`, `osx`; or you can be
more detailed like `ubuntu16.04`
* For geographic locations: `us-east`, `japan`, `eu-central` etc
* For platforms: `docker`, `openstack`, etc.

=== Using labels

Jobs and pipelines can be pinned to specific agents or groups of agents
if multiple agents have similar sets of labels. In jobs, visit advanced
settings and choose restrict where the job can run. In pipelines, you
would restrict it with the `node` block. You can restrict jobs by

> specifying a single label or use a label expression. Here's two
> examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
specifying a single label or use a label expression.
Here are two examples:
```

* Single label: `us-east`
* Label expression: `openstack && us-east && linux`

The above label expression means that a given agent must have all of
those labels.

== Example: Configuration on Unix

This section describes Kohsuke Kawaguchi's set up of Jenkins agents that
he used to use inside Sun for his day job. His controller Jenkins node ran
on a SPARC Solaris box, and he had many SPARC Solaris agents, Opteron
Linux agents, and a few Windows agents.

* Each computer has an user called `jenkins` and a group called

> `jenkins`. All computers use the same UID and GID. (If you have access
> to NIS, this can be done more easily.) This is not a Jenkins

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`jenkins`. All computers use the same UID and GID. This is not a Jenkins
```

requirement, but it makes the agent management easier.
* On each computer, `/var/jenkins` directory is set as the home
directory of user `jenkins`. Again, this is not a hard requirement,
but having the same directory layout makes things easier to maintain.
* All machines run `sshd`. Windows agents run `cygwin sshd`.
* All machines have `/usr/sbin/ntpdate` installed, and synchronize
clock regularly with the same NTP server.
* Controller's `/var/jenkins` have all the build tools beneath it --- a
few versions of Ant, Maven, and JDKs. JDKs are native programs, so I
have JDK copies for all the architectures I need. The directory
structure looks like this:
+
[bash]

> ----

Reviewer 2: may be worth using newer tool versions below?

/var/jenkins
  +- .ssh
  +- bin
  |   +- agent  (more about this below)
  +- workspace (jenkins creates this file and store all data files inside)
  +- tools
      +- ant-1.5
      +- ant-1.6
      +- maven-1.0.2
      +- maven-2.0
      +- java-1.4 -> native/java-1.4 (symlink)
      +- java-1.5 -> native/java-1.5 (symlink)
      +- java-1.8 -> native/java-1.8 (symlink)
      +- native -> solaris-sparcv9 (symlink; different on each computer)
      +- solaris-sparcv9
      |   +- java-1.4
      |   +- java-1.5
      |   +- java-1.8
      +- linux-amd64
          +- java-1.4
          +- java-1.5
          +- java-1.8
----

* Controller's `/var/jenkins/.ssh` has private/public key and
`authorized_keys` so that a controller can execute programs on agents
through `ssh`, by using

> http://www.google.com/search?q=ssh+keygen[public key authentication].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
https://www.google.com/search?q=ssh+keygen[public key authentication].
```

> * On controller, I have a little shell script that uses rsync to synchronize

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* On the controller, there is a little shell script that uses rsync to synchronize
```

controller's `/var/jenkins` to agents (except `/var/jenkins/workspace`).

> I also use the script to replicate tools on all agents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The script also replicates tools on all agents.
```

* `/var/jenkins/bin/launch-agent` is a shell script that Jenkins uses
to execute jobs remotely. This shell script sets up `PATH` and a few
other things before launching `agent.jar.` Below is a very simple
example script.
+
[bash]
----
#!/bin/bash

JAVA_HOME=/opt/SUN/jdk1.8.0_152
PATH=$PATH:$JAVA_HOME/bin
export PATH
java -jar /var/jenkins/bin/agent.jar
----

> * Finally all computers have other standard build tools like `svn` and
> `cvs` installed and available in PATH.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Finally all computers have other standard build tools like `git` and
`maven` installed and available in PATH.
```

> Note that in the more recent Jenkins packages, the default JENKINS_HOME
> (aka home directory for the 'jenkins' user on Linux machines, e.g. Red
> Hat, CentOS, Ubuntu) is set to /var/lib/jenkins.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that in the Jenkins operating system packages, the default `JENKINS_HOME`
(aka home directory for the 'jenkins' user on Linux machines, e.g. Red
Hat, CentOS, Ubuntu) is usually set to /var/lib/jenkins.
```

== Scheduling strategy

Some agents are faster, while others are slow. Some agents are closer
(network wise) to a controller, others are far away. So doing a good build
distribution is a challenge. Currently, Jenkins employs the following
strategy:

. If a project is configured to stick to one computer, that's always
honored.
. Jenkins tries to build a project on the same computer that it was
previously built.

> If you have interesting ideas (or better yet, implementations), please
> let me know.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

== Node monitoring

Jenkins has a notion of a

> http://javadoc.jenkins-ci.org/hudson/node_monitors/NodeMonitor.html[“node monitor”] which can check the status of an agent for various conditions,

Reviewer 2: untested, may need tweaking
```suggestion
jenkinsdoc:hudson.node_monitors.NodeMonitor[“node monitor”] which can check the status of an agent for various conditions,
```

displaying the results and optionally marking the agent offline
accordingly. Jenkins bundles several, checking disk space in the
workspace; disk space in the temporary partition; swap space; clock skew
(compared to the controller); and response time.

Plugins can add other monitors.

== Offline status and retention strategy

Administrators can manually mark agents offline (with an optional
published reason) or reconnect them.

Groovy scripts such as

> https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Monitor+and+Restart+Offline+Slaves[Monitor and Restart Offline Slaves] can perform batch operations like this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
link:/doc/book/managing/nodes/#monitor-and-restart-offline-agents[Monitor and Restart Offline Agents] can perform batch operations like this.
```

There is also a CLI command to reconnect.

Then there is a background task which automatically reconnects agents
that are thought to be back up. The behavior is configurable per agent
(or per cloud, if using cloudy provisioning for agents) via a

> http://javadoc.jenkins-ci.org/hudson/slaves/RetentionStrategy.html[“retention strategy”], of which Jenkins bundles several (plugins can contribute

Reviewer 2: untested
```suggestion
jenkinsdoc:hudson.slaves.RetentionStrategy[“retention strategy”], of which Jenkins bundles several (plugins can contribute
```

by default configured to roam freely.

== Access an Internal CI Build Farm (Controller + Agents) from the Public Internet

One might consider make the Jenkins controller accessible on the public
network (so that people can see it), while leaving the build agents
within the firewall (typical reasons: cost and security) There are
several ways to make it work:

* Equip the controller node with a network interface that's exposed to the
public Internet (simple to do, but not recommended in general)
* Allow port-forwarding from the controller to your agents within the
firewall. The port-forwarding should be restricted so that only the
controller with its known IP can connect to agents. With this set up in the
firewall, as far as Jenkins is concerned it's as if the firewall doesn't
exist.  If multiple hops are involved, you may wish to investigate how
to do ssh "jump host" transparently using the ProxyCommand construct.
In fact,  with a properly configured "jump host" setup, even the controller
doesn't need to expose itself to the public Internet at all - as long as
the organization's firewall allows port 22 traffic.

> * Use JNLP agents and have agents connect to the controller, not the other

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Use Inbound agents and have agents connect to the controller, not the other
```

way around. In this case it's the agents that initiates the connection,

> so it works correctly with the NAT firewall.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
so it works correctly with the firewall.
```

Note that in both cases, once the controller is compromised, all your agents

> can be easily compromised (IOW, malicious controller can execute arbitrary

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
can be easily compromised (malicious controller can execute arbitrary
```

program on agents), so both set-up leaves much to be desired in terms of
isolating security breach.

> https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Build+Publisher+Plugin[Build Publisher Plugin] provides another way of doing this, in more secure
> fashion.

Reviewer 2: not maintained by the looks of it
```suggestion
```

== Running Multiple Agents on the Same Machine

Using a well established virtualization infrastructure such

> as http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kernel-based_Virtual_Machine[Kernel-based Virtual Machine (KVM)], it is quite easy to run multiple agent instances

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kernel-based_Virtual_Machine[Kernel-based Virtual Machine (KVM)], it is quite easy to run multiple agent instances
```

on a single physical node.  Such instances can be running various Linux,
*BSD UNIX, Solaris, Windows.  For Windows, one can have them installed
as separate Windows services so they can start up on system startup.
While the correct use of executors largely obviates the need for
multiple agent instances on the same machine, there are some unique use
cases to consider:

* You want more configurability between the configured nodes. Say you
have one node set to be used as much as possible, and the other node to
be used only when needed.
* You may have multiple Jenkins controller installations building different
things, and so this configuration would allow you to have agents for
more than one controller on the same box. That's right, with Jenkins you
really can serve two controllers.
* You may wish to leverage the easiness of starting/stopping/replacing
virtual machines, perhaps in conjunction with Jenkins plugins such as
the

> https://wiki.jenkins-ci.org/display/JENKINS/Libvirt+Slaves+Plugin[Libvirt Slaves Plugin].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
plugin:libvirt-slave[Libvirt Agents Plugin].
```

* You wish to maximize your hardware investment and utilization, at the
same time minimizing operating cost (e.g. utility expenses for running
idling agents).

Follow these steps to get multiple agents working on the same Windows
box:

* Add the first agent node in Jenkins and give it its own working dir
(e.g. jenkins-agent-a).

> * Go to the agent page from the agent box and launch by JNLP, then use

Reviewer 2: Probably shouldn't document this but I don't know enough about Windows for the service side, the only windows I've used is cloud based agents,

the command from `Run from agent command line:` should be used instead

the menu to install it as a service instead.
* Once the service is running, you'll get jenkins-slave.exe and
jenkins-slave.xml in your agent's work dir.

> * Bring up windows services and stop the Jenkins Slave service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Bring up windows services and stop the Jenkins Agent service.
```

existing node, and copy the first node you setup. Then you just tweak
the Remote FS Root and a couple other settings to make it distinct. When
you are done you should have two (or more) Jenkins slave services in the
list of Windows services.

== Troubleshooting tips

Some interesting pages on issues (and resolutions) occurring when using
Windows agents:

* https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Windows+agents+fail+to+start+via+DCOM[Windows agents fail to start via DCOM]
* https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Windows+slaves+fail+to+start+via+ssh[Windows slaves fail to start via ssh]
* https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/Windows+slaves+fail+to+start+via+JNLP[Windows slaves fail to start via JNLP]

Some more general troubleshooting tips:

. Every time Jenkins launches a program locally/remotely, it prints out
the command line to the log file. So when a remote execution fails,
login to the computer that runs the controller by using the same user
account, and try to run the command from your shell. You tend to solve
problems quickly in this way.
. Each agent has a log page showing the communication between the controller
and the agent agent. This log often shows error reports.

> . If you use binary-unsafe remoting mechanism like telnet to launch an
> agent, add the `-text` option to `agent.jar` so that Jenkins avoids
> sending binary data over the network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

. When the same command runs outside Jenkins just fine, make sure you

> are testing it with the same user account as Jenkins runs under. In
> particular, if you run Jenkins controller on Windows, consult
> https://wiki.jenkins.io/display/JENKINS/How+to+get+command+prompt+as+the+SYSTEM+user[How to get command prompt as the SYSTEM user].

Reviewer 2: the linked docs don't work
```suggestion
are testing it with the same user account as Jenkins runs under.
```

. Feel free to send your trouble to

> http://jenkins-ci.org/content/mailing-lists[one of our mailing lists]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
link:/mailing-lists/[one of our mailing lists]
```

=== Windows agent service upgrades

If a newer version of the Jenkins windows service wrapper
(jenkins-slave.exe) is available it will be replaced and used on the
next start of the service. On very rare occasions the service wrapper
may change its behaviour that would require a change in configuration of
the service. This can not be done automatically as the service
configuration may not be the default and as such could break an
installation.

A quick fix of this is to uninstall the jenkins service then verify the
service xml is up-to-date (and contains any site configuration such as
the user credentials) and then re-install the service.

> Other manual task that may fix the issue:
> 
> * Jenkins > 1.565.1 - a message similar to
> `Restart failure. 'C:\jenkins\jenkins-slave.exe restart' completed with 0 but I'm still alive`
> in the agent error logs. In the windows service manager edit the service
> configuration to restart the service on failure and add `-noReconnect`
> to the agent arguments in the service xml configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> == Other readings
> 
> * Jenkins Build Farm Experience
> http://blog.sonatype.com/2009/01/the-hudson-build-farm-experience-volume-i/[Volume I],
> http://blog.sonatype.com/2009/02/the-hudson-build-farm-experience-volume-ii/[Volume 2],
> http://www.sonatype.com/people/2009/02/the-hudson-build-farm-experience-volume-iii/[Volume 3] and
> http://www.sonatype.com/people/2009/02/the-hudson-build-farm-experience-volume-iv/[Volume 4]
> * HudsonWindowsSlavesSetup + http://community.jboss.org/wiki/HudsonWindowsSlavesSetup

Reviewer 2: too old
```suggestion
```
